Notes de séance Oracle webex dans les bureaux de SQLI

Date: 13 mars 2018 - 10h-12h

Présents:

Kadday Oucif - Oracle (KO) - HOST
Robert Leckenby - Genève Lab (RL)
Other users:
- Denitsa
- Martijn De Grunt
- Pascal Carrano
- Eric Mita ?
- Sébastien Vaury
- Guillaume Gravey


# Chatbot video conference:

------ INFORMATION POUR SE JOINDRE A LA CONFERENCE
 1/ To join the web conference:
 
                Click on the following link: https://myoracle.webex.com/meet/kadday.oucif
 
 2/ Then to connect to the audio you have 3 options:
 
Option 1 « Call Me »
·         Click on « Connect to audio » then click on  « Call me »
·         Choose your country.
·         Enter your phone number (without the country code)
·         If asked the security code is : 1234 #
 
Option 2 « I Will Call In »
·         Call +41 44 580 40 03
·         Then enter the conference code: 452 634 1 #
·         Then the security code : 1234 #
 
Option 3 « Call Using Computer »
·         Click on « Connect to audio » then click on « Call Using Computer »
·         You may have to install a VoIP plugin if it is the first time you are using this WebEx feature. Please follow the instructions.
·         When the install is finished, you will have a message saying “Install succeeded”. Click on “Connect Now” or click on “Call using computer” again.
·         You will be asked the security code : 1234 (with no hashtag at the end)
------

Notes:
Intro Kadday, chatbot intro sales consultant for Oracle based in Malaga today in Stockholm
Martijn Utrecht, Oracle EU org. Prod manganement US and Sales management others.
Eric Mita sales consultant Ava
Pascal Carrano SQLI
Prés de Sébastien
Denitsa .net developper
Guillaume support chatbot offer for SQLI
Robert - stagiaire

Microsoft plateforme

Expectation for today:
Sébastien => 1. Q/A chatbot delivered by Oracle, quick hands-on of this chatbot to compare to Microsoft xp
2. Get me and Denitsa able to del chatbot, NLP, translation, analyse pictures


Martijn : let's dive into the product and look at pricing later in different setting.

So Kadday: product discussion
Image recognition for emotion analysis 

(SV oracle légèrement moins développé que Microsoft sur AI)

Kadday set up enviro for a week so we can test.

External API's are possible

Oracle Mobile Cloud, Enterprise
* Mobile Core (MCS)
Add external APIs into plateform

* Visual builder

.... Too much information to take notes... try to get slides. (He will send the presentation !)

NodeJS and ExpressJS to create 'custom components'
'Connectors' REST, SOAP(simple open access protocol)

Two trainer models (ML algos)
- Trainer HT
Simple and quick
- Trainer TM (go-to one)
deeper, knows more slang and so on


10-20 utterances for intents
Then test in chatbot UI

Terminology
Intent = what bot tries to do
Utterance = what user writes
GG : how many utterance for one intent ? Answer 10-20 to get good level of confidence

Entities: values or inputs that you want to extract from utterance:
eg. 'I want a reservation at 9pm today' Entities: '9pm', 'today=date'

* He will also send a demo.

bot can extract entity like 'word after "from"' to get departure and after 'to' to get destination (entities ~= variables)

*.json log to capture utterances, can get log during runtime, date with timestamp

A lot of built-in entities, but can also create our own
e.g. towns in Geneva, candidates
Can use import file ? Entities=> More, import *.csv file

Spellcheck on custom entities ?
Spellcheck not really supported
He'll look it up, not sure.
Entities connected to intent, so even with spelling mistake, the intent will understand.
Entities can have synonyms which can include spelling mistakes.

* Dialog flow:
Built in Yamml file (human-readable JSON)
States:
	intent:
		component:
			etc...

Map a certain intent to a certain state

"System component", many inbuilt already.
Can extend to custom components (Javacript and nodeJS), Backend integration

Translation can use an API key to use a translation service (google Translate for example) and translate in the bot

Can 'enable' translation by just setting to True. Detect language, and respond as a function of input language.
Could let the user choose language.
Bot is multi-lingual

Underlying technology, build bot and train it in English, then translate input language into English, that is what is used by the bot. All utterances translated into English.
Answers are controlled by us, ie what the end-user sees is never a translated language, but our own inputs.
Translation services : Google Translate, and Microsoft Translation Services.

* Transitions
Can transition to different state
eg. 'Thanks for the chat' then reset variables.
i.e. can stop the session.

* System components

Python not supported in platform, but in backend yes. In bot, JS.

*common components can include different cards, images, buttons, etc
=> 'common response'

* custom components
Can use external API's 
Intelligent Chatbot is REST based to add additional logic in the backend
SDK and shell available to include or own backend

Bot>mobile>REST>Node>Connectors>Cloud

Connectors can include security layers

Can use NodeJS


'For bots to be useful, they need to integrate with backend services'

Info on how to invoke bot in own applications - also facebook messenger
Can use webhooks (automated REST API). Connect to external service. 
Everything that is REST based can be configured through the chatbot
Documentation available on this
Webhooks => perhaps can integrate in ge.ch ? 

Instant APPS
Application connected to chatbot that can be triggered by certain utterances.
For example for things that don't need a conversation but just an action.
Can include some Javascript.
Can send variables to from bot and app. Including external API calls.

>> System components includes forms.
e.g. order pizza form could include name, address, time, price, etc.
For medium to large forms, get structured data using form. Can also use a conversational flow to gather data.
All data filled in the form does NOT go to messaging channel. i.e. data does not go to Facebook for example, but rather goes from user to Oracle Cloud. Pre-filling values for example for a known user, is possible.

Instant App is HTML5 based ?

Sébastien asking about forms: event for end of April SITB with Oracle. Saying that forms not needed anymore as we have chatbot.
Oracle think that sometimes a form is the best way.
External API possible from chatbot, but what about rules from Facebook ?
Instant apps can provide links e.g. to youtube, and therefore should be able to go outside of facebook for example. Data provided outside of facebook messenger channel.

Q/A maker is not yet available, it's in development inside Oracle.

Can send variables to instant app with an app_id

Youtube platform for oracle with 100+ videos about
Oracle mobile platform

Add intent, rephrase them, train them, 1st with HT, then TM
Always backup by exporting intents and so on.
Export csv then import it again with added values

Translation, translate users utterance into English, work in English, but reply in language of user.

>>"Translate service used ONLY to translate utterance to recognise intent and entity."
>>"Predefined answers in different language"

Q/A maker does not require to use translation API

So for example, we can have a simple Q/A bot that explains the working of the bot, but then transitions to a more complex bot.
i.e. route either to Q/A OR to intent

This means if we start dev with Q/A, we can then include more complex intents

For QA maker, use google docs to create csv file.

>> "QA maker needs to be set up in local language"

>> Q/A maker Language service is combination of NLP and elastic search.

>> categories can be used to direct the user through the Q/A workflow

Limitations of Q/A: can drill into the structured answer but not go to business decision after, need to combine two bots
e.g. 
User: What training in Italy ?
Bot: a, b, c
User: ok book b
Bot: currently not possible.
But in answer, 'ask me about this and that', and bounce back to intents
Q/A maker still not available

CSV format:
Category_path,questions,content

He will send us a sample of csv

Can also use API search engine in a custom component

data center is Amsterdam so latency should be good

Use mobile backend as a gateway through connectors to other backend

Oracle Hand on training on mobile stack in Geneva 22 march organised by Eric Mita (?)
(Mbase = mobile base)
Mbase includes sms gateway and other capabilities

Analytics module in the core module, data from chatbot can be used in there. Therefore can analyse the data directly there

Architecture Prototype for Etat de Genève
For example where to perform calculation and how to get results back to chatbot, 
Can do this through the mobile core (custom component) connector

For out bot:
Small Q/A part to introduce bot (not available for General Access in April) still in beta testing
Then configure intents to get results of elections

Martijn advice for Q/A, use workaround with intents and NOT use the Q/A in beta

Results could perhaps be shown in instant apps components, but need help from Kadday

Connection is agnostic through mobile core

Guillaume wants no external connectors so that we can deliver on time

Facebook messenger widget available
Diagram API perhaps to present results

Follow up meeting next week with architecture call

=> ACTION RL: need 'media' logon for JSON access <=

=> ACTION RL: ASK TELONO HOW TO: Each time we communicate results, we need to push the date time (prelim or final) <=